# Point Cloud Segmentation with Deep Reinforcement Learning

A documentation of the code and the parameters will be provided soon. Furthermore, windows 10 installation instructions will also be provided soon.

## Requirements

A python interpreter with version 3.6 is assumed.

* [Segmentation Environment](https://github.com/mati3230/segmentation)
* [Stable-Baselines](https://github.com/mati3230/stable-baselines)
* [Pyntcloud](https://github.com/mati3230/pyntcloud)
* numpy
* scipy
* pandas
* matplotlib
* gym
* tensorflow-gpu==1.14 (tensorflow==1.14 without the usage of the GPU can also be used)

## Installation

The code is tested on Ubuntu 18.04.3.

1. Clone this repository
2. cd smartsegmentation
3. sh setup.sh

## Training

*python train.py*

The different parameters can be printed with "python train.py -h". By default the PointNet policy will be used.
To use the LDGCNN policy enter:

*python train.py --policy=ldgcnn*

To use the voxel based policy enter:

*python train.py --policy=vox_custom --point_mode=Voxel*

The point cloud scenes should be placed in a folder called *PointcloudScenes*. The scenes have the naming convention *scene_x.csv* whereas x is a natural number. Hence, the first scene is *scene_0.csv*, the second scene *scene_1.csv* and so on. The scenes will be loaded in ascending order. The parameter *max_scenes* determine how many scenes will be loaded.

## Manual Segmentation

The segmentation can be executed manually with:

*python manual_play.py*

Every step, the sampled observation will be plotted. The query points will be plotted in grey. The parameters can be entered as in the following example to segment the ceiling: 

* Seed Point X: 0
* Seed Point Y: 0
* Seed Point Z: 3
* K: 12
* Angle Threshold: 20
* Curvature Threshold: 0.1

## Testing/Agent Segmentation

The segmentation by the agent and the result will be plotted. A trained policy is necessary. Policies are stored by default in the *./save_model/* directory. This directory can be changed with the *checkpoint_dir* parameter. 

*python agent_play.py*

Similar to the training process, the policies can be changed with:

*python agent_play.py --policy=ldgcnn* or *python agent_play.py --policy=vox_custom --point_mode=Voxel*

## Plot Point Clouds

To plot the point cloud scene 0 use: 

*python plot.py --file=PointcloudScenes/scene_0.csv*

To see the different labels enter: 

*python plot.py --file=PointcloudScenes/scene_0.csv --color_labels=True*

To plot the curvature values type: 

*python plot.py --file=PointcloudScenes/scene_0.csv --color_labels=True --curvature=True*

Moreover the point cloud with the curvature values will be plotted. The points with high curvature will be plotted in red. 

## Generate Expert Trajectories

Currently, we have no success while creating expert trajectories. Thus, this module is experimental. However, expert trajectories can be generated by: 

*python expert_traj_generator.py*

A random agent will apply segmentations and trajectories with an appropriate reward which can be specified in the script will be saved. The available parameters are the same as for the training. Thus, the available parameters can be printed with the *-h* option. A *expert_trajectories.npz* file and a *pretrain* folder with the pretrain observations will be created. 
The expert trajectories can be used in the training by setting the *pretrain* flag to 1: 

*python train.py --pretrain=1*

The plot script *plot_trajectory.py* is also experimental and has to be extended. 